#### Notes on the Maps

- The information displayed is based on **50** Yelp entries pulled from the API according to the **most populated city** in each state.
- When testing the effect of pulling greater than 50 entries on the rating, the differences were approximately +/- 0.2 - that is, a negligible difference.
- Ratings of **-1** denote _no restaurants_ of the selected cuisine in that city from which an average could be calculated. For example, Sioux Falls, SD contained no restaurants tagged with the category "Korean", resulting in its rating of -1.

## Main Findings and Analysis

When we decided to delve into Yelp's API, one of our first thoughts was to examine the diversity of different parts of the country through the restaurants and businesses in each state, where diversity is defined as racial demographics. Our **hypothesis** was that the **ratings of various types of restaurants would be indicative of an area's diversity.** For a simple example, if a state had higher ratings for Chinese restaurants, perhaps that state had a higher Chinese population. So, let's dive into what we found!

- **New York City** had consistently higher ratings among all the different types of cuisines. Historically, the city has a reputation of being a place of refuge for many immigrants, which contributed to the high levels of diversity it has today. According to the U.S. Census conducted in 2010, New York City's residents were 44% White, 25.5% African American or Black, 0.7% American Indian and Alaska Native, 12.7% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and 13% of some other race. Based on these statistics, this observation seems to support our hypothesis, and that NYC's restaurants are at least somewhat representative of the diversity of the city and state. ([Source](https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/planning/download/pdf/data-maps/nyc-population/census2010/t_sf1_dp_nyc.pdf))

- In **Sioux Falls, SD**, we noticed a rating of -1 for both Korean and Thai restaurants, indicating they were not present within the city. This led us to suspect there was a low Asian population within the state overall, considering these cuisines weren't found in South Dakota's most populated city. As it happens, South Dakota's state population is only 1.1% Asian, which matched what we thought. This point too seemingly confirms our hypothesis. ([Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_South_Dakota))

- **Little Rock, AR** and **Jackson, MS** both had ratings of 5 - the highest possible rating - for Korean restaurants, which perhaps didn’t indicate a large population of Korean people, but rather a small one. This can be confirmed by the 2010 Census, which reports a 2.7% Asian population in Little Rock and a 0.4% Asian population in Jackson. Consequently, the high rating is likely due to the fact there are less restaurants used to compute the average. If there are only a few Korean restaurants in the area, it’s possible people are unable to discern what makes quality Korean food due to a lack of exposure to the cuisine or culture. (Or, alternatively, the Korean food in these cities/states really is just amazing). ([Source: Little Rock](https://www.tripsavvy.com/little-rock-101-2211700
), [Source: Jackson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jackson,_Mississippi#Demographics
))

- **The West Coast**, consisting of Washington, Oregon, California, and Nevada, constantly had ratings on the higher end of the scale across most of the different types of food. As such, this could've be representative of the region's rich demographic. In 2010, the U.S. Census reported that there were a number of areas in which minorities were a large proportion of the population, and "nearly half of the West's population was minority (47 percent), numbering 33.9 million." Furthermore, nationwide, California had the largest minority population of 22.3 million, and Nevada's minority population increased at the highest rate by 78%. Therefore, the maps presented here outwardly support the West Coast's growth and status of large diversity. ([Source](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/2010_census/cb11-cn125.html))

Of course, there are a number of extra factors that may or may not change the conclusions we've drawn, and as a result, what we think maybe isn't completely accurate. So, if just so happens that our thoughts are complete bogus compared to the actual truth - hey, at least we made some cool maps in R! 
